Apache Zookeeper
--------------------------
Apache Zookeeper is an open source distributed  service that helps you manage a large set of hosts. 
Management and coordination in a distributed environment are tricky. 
Zookeeper automates this process and allows developers to focus on building software features rather worry about the distributed nature of their application.

Zookeeper helps you to maintain configuration information, naming, group services for distributed applications. 

Important reasons behind the popularity of the Zookeeper:

It allows for mutual exclusion and cooperation between server processes
It ensures that your application runs consistently.s
The transaction process is never completed partially. It is either given the status of Success or failure.
It helps to maintain a standard hierarchical namespace similar to files and directories Computers, which run as a single system which can be locally or geographically connected.
It allows to Join/leave node in a cluster and node status at the real time
You can increase performance by deploying more machines
It allows you to elect a node as a leader for better coordination
ZooKeeper works fast with work loads where reads to the data are more common than writes.

Zookeeper follows a Client-Server Architecture
All systems store a copy of the data
Leaders are elected at startup


Server: The server sends an acknowledge when any client connects. 

Client: Client is one of the nodes in the distributed application cluster. It helps you to accesses information from the server. Every client sends a message to the server at regular intervals that helps the server to know that the client is alive.

Leader: One of the servers is designated a Leader. It gives all the information to the clients as well as an acknowledgment that the server is alive.

Follower:	Server node which follows leader instruction is called a follower.

ZooKeeper WebUI: If you want to work with ZooKeeper resource management, then you need to use WebUI. It allows working with ZooKeeper using the web user interface, instead of using the command line. It offers fast and effective communication with the ZooKeeper application.